---
layout: article
titles:
  # @start locale config
  en      : &EN       Load Order
  # @end locale config
key: page-normallo
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
aside:
  toc: true
nonext: true
---

## About LOOT
**LOOT**{: .hili} is a tool that is integrated into **Vortex**{: .hili} and **MO2**{: .hili} and can automatically sort your load order.
It is compatible with **FROST**{: .hili}, but I recommend to not use it as it sometimes still does some silly things with FROST load orders.
 

## How to structure your Load Order
##### This is the start of the load order
{: .hili}

#### 1. Bethesda Files
{: .hili}
All Bethesda main files. Make sure that you don't have DLCUltraHighResolution.esm here.
- Fallout4.esm
- DLCRobot.esm
- DLCworkshop01.esm
- DLCCoast.esm
- DLCworkshop02.esm
- DLCworkshop03.esm
- DLCNukaWorld.esm


#### 2. Master files
{: .hili}
Put all .esm files and .esm flagged .esp files here 
- PANPC.esm
- HUDFramework.esm
- Unofficial Fallout 4 Patch.esp
- ...


#### 3. Frost Unrelated Mods I
{: .hili}
Put all mods that are unrelated to FROST and don't need a frost patch here
* GCM_DLC_Automatron.esl
* GCM_DLC_Far_Harbor.esl
* GCM.esp
* SCM.esp
* Z_LevelUp_HealingRemoval.esp
* Immersive HUD.esp
* ...


#### 4. Frost Unrelated Mods II
{: .hili}
Put all mods here that need a patch for Frost. Load their frost patches at the section marked down below!. Mods that belong here are Lighting Mods, Weapon Mods, Armor Mods, Creature Mods, Mods that edit leveled lists, ...
* (Your Lighting Mods, if you use some)


#### 5. Frost Main Files
{: .hili}

- FROST.esp
- FROSTmoreDoors.esp
- RedsFrostFixes.esp
- FrostNukaWorld.esp
- aFrostMod.esp
- FROST Feral Fix.esp
- FROST - UFO4P Patch.esp


#### 6. Other Frost Mods
{: .hili}
Put all other FROST standalone mods here
* ArgonnFROSTSanityTweakPatch.esp
* FROST - It Snowed.esp
* FROST - LootableCars.esp
  * FROST_LLCars_Intermediate.esp (Optional File)
  * FROST_LLCars_Realistic.esp (Optional File)
  * FROST_LLCars_Scarcity.esp (Optional File)
* Freeze.esp
* Frost PipTab.esp
* FROST - AccessibleMedTekResearch.esp
* FROST - AccessibleFortStrong.esp
* FROST - AccessibleArcJet.esp
* FROST - AccessibleFortHagen.esp
* FROST - SuperMutantLocations.esp
* FROST - Hunkered Down.esp
* FROST - Hunkered Down-Settlements.esp
* ...


#### 7. Frost Patches
{: .hili}
Put all mods here that patch a certain mod for FROST
* FROST PANPC 2.0.6+ Patch.esp (this is the PANPC patch for frost, it might have a different name for you)
* ...


#### 8. Frost Cell Fixes (FCF)
{: .hili}

No other files should come after the FCF .esp files. 
The ONLY two exception to this rule are the Satellite Worldmap mod (SatelliteWorldMap.esp), and Item Sorter patches like Complex Sorter patches from xEdit. The two exceptions must be loaded after the FCF files. 
If you don't follow these rules, bad things will happen!

- FCF_Main.esp
- FCF_Previsibines.esp
- FCF_PrevisibinesNW.esp
- FCF_PrevisibinesDoors.esp
- (Additional FCF files for patching Lighting mods)
- ...

##### This is the end of the load order
{: .hili}



## Example Load Order
This load order contains all mods from the Recommended Guide.
Ultra Interior and Ultra Exterior Lighting were used as lighting mods in this example load order.
```
# This file was automatically generated by Mod Organizer.
*PANPC.esm
*HUDFramework.esm
*Unofficial Fallout 4 Patch.esp
*Z_LevelUp_HealingRemoval.esp
*GCM.esp
*GCM_DLC_Automatron.esl
*GCM_DLC_Far_Harbor.esl
*SCM.esp
*Immersive HUD.esp
*UltraInteriorLighting.esp
*UltraExteriorLighting.esp
*FROST.esp
*RedsFrostFixes.esp
*FROSTmoreDoors.esp
*FrostNukaWorld.esp
*aFrostMod.esp
*FROST - UFO4P Patch.esp
*FROST Feral Fix.esp
*ArgonnFROSTSanityTweakPatch.esp
*FROST - It Snowed.esp
*FROST - LootableCars.esp
*FROST_LLCars_Scarcity.esp
*Freeze.esp
*Frost PipTab.esp
*FROST - AccessibleMedTekResearch.esp
*FROST - AccessibleFortStrong.esp
*FROST - AccessibleArcJet.esp
*FROST - AccessibleFortHagen.esp
*FROST - SuperMutantLocations.esp
*FROST - Hunkered Down.esp
*FROST - Hunkered Down-Settlements.esp
*FROST PANPC 2.0.6+ Patch.esp
*FCF_Main.esp
*FCF_Previsibines.esp
*FCF_PrevisibinesDoors.esp
*FCF_PrevisibinesUEL.esp
*FCF_PrevisibinesUIL.esp
*FCF_PrevisibinesNW.esp
*FCF_PrevisibinesNW_UEL.esp
*FCF_PrevisibinesNW_UIL.esp
```

## The Ending Of Things
That was the Recommended Guide. If you followed everything in this guide, you are ready to play FROST! 
Or you can add other mods to your setup, just make sure to use this Load Order page to put new mods into the right spot.
You can check out the next sections of this website for information about which mods are compatible with FROST, or which mods work well with FROST.
Consider joining the [FROST Community on Discord](https://discord.com/invite/BaKsm7Fn4A)!

You can now start Fallout 4 through F4SE, click "New Game" in the Main Menu, and play FROST. Note that currently the Fallout 4 Intro was not replaced yet by the FROST Development team, so don't be confused if you see it.
{: .info}



